+++
title = "Examplary (a example-oriented programming language)"
author = ["Shane Mulligan"]
date = 2021-03-17T00:00:00+13:00
keywords = ["nlp", "openai", "pen", "gpt"]
draft = false
+++

`Examplary` is an example-oriented DSL that can be used to construct and
compose functions based on prompts and external `String->String` commands.

-   Emacs Lisp: <http://github.com/semiosis/pen.el/blob/master/src/pen-examplary.el>
-   Clojure: <http://github.com/semiosis/examplary>

Using examplary, one can keep track of their various `String->String` functions
but also:

-   generate prompts from an example generator
-   design prompts using design patterns

<!--listend-->

{{< highlight text "linenos=table, linenostart=1" >}}
fifth-generation programming language
5GL
    Any programming language based on problem
    solving using constraints given to the
    program, rather than using an algorithm
    written by a programmer.

    Most constraint-based and logic
    programming languages and some other
    declarative languages are fifth-generation
    languages.
{{< /highlight >}}


## Emacs-lisp implementation {#emacs-lisp-implementation}

Generate input with `:gen` when example input is not present.

Use shell or emacs lisp for generators and filters.

{{< highlight emacs-lisp "linenos=table, linenostart=1" >}}
(defprompt ("lines of code" regex)
  :task "Convert lines to regex"
  :gen "examplary-edit-generator shane"
  :filter "grex"
  :examples '(("example 1\nexample2")
              ("example 2\nexample3" "^example [23]$")
              ("pi4\npi5" "^pi[45]$" "pi4\npi5"))
  :lm-command "openai-complete.sh")
{{< /highlight >}}

With regards to the list of examples,
the third argument (if supplied) should be
incorrect output (a counterexample).

If the 2nd argument is left out, it will be
generated by the command specified by
`:external`.

Leave out `:task` to have it inferred.

{{< highlight emacs-lisp "linenos=table, linenostart=1" >}}
(defprompt ("lines of code" regex)
  :gen 'examplary-edit-generator
  :filter "grex"
  :examples '(("example 1\nexample2")
              ("example 2\nexample3" "^example [23]$")
              ("pi4\npi5" "^pi[45]$" "pi4\npi5"))
  :lm-command "openai-complete.sh")
{{< /highlight >}}

Even leave out `:gen` to have it inferred from
tthe variable name.

{{< highlight emacs-lisp "linenos=table, linenostart=1" >}}
(defprompt ("short lines of code" regex) :filter "grex")
{{< /highlight >}}


## Clojure implementation {#clojure-implementation}

Here are some examples:

{{< highlight lisp "linenos=table, linenostart=1" >}}
(def lines->regex
  :e "grex"
  "example 1\nexample2" "^example [12]$"
  "example 2\nexample3" "^example [23]$"
  "pi4\npi5" "^pi[45]$")

(def topic->analogy
  ;; Each line is a training example.
  "Neural networks" "Neural networks are like genetic algorithms in that both are systems that learn from experience"
  "Social media" "Social media is like a market in that both are systems that coordinate the actions of many individuals.")

(def topic->field-of-study
  "chemistry" "study of chemicals"
  "biology" "study of living things")

(def cron->natural-language
  :e "interpret-crontab"
  "17 *	* * *" "At minute 17."
  "25 6	* * *" "At 06:25."
  "47 6	* * 7" "At 06:47 on Sunday."
  "52 6	1 * *" "At 06:52 on day-of-month 1.")
{{< /highlight >}}

| syntax | description                                                        |
|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `:g`   | external generator command                                         |
| `:i`   | specifies a source of input (training) strings from a `jsonl` file |
| `:o`   | specifies an output file for outputting `jsonl`                    |

<span class="underline">external generator command</span>
: specifies an external [pipable] command which
    can generate examples or as a source of truth
    for query reformulation (when generating
    prompts)


### Related links {#related-links}

-   Code: <http://github.com/semiosis/examplary>
-   Design patterns: <http://github.com/semiosis/prompt-engineering-patterns>