california school teacher the mother of six
children was kidnapped sometime ago by five
drug addicts she was stabbed 20 times in the
back her captors told the police that they
were warlocks that is male witches and that
they were devil worshippers in montana some
time ago a 22 year old social worker picked up
a hitchhiker near yellowstone national park
and the hitchhiker then shoots his victim in
the head brutally attacks the dead body and
tells the police that he worships the devil in
miami beach a 69 year old retired woman is
viciously attacked by a young woman who later
tells reporters very happily that for the last
five years she has been worshiping satan and
this is her sacrifice to the devil story after
story after story like that could be told
tonight if we only had time to tell it the
scripture has a great deal to say about the
devil and demons in fact the whole bible is
the story of a conflict between the forces of
god and the forces of the devil and the
scripture i would like for you to turn to is
deuteronomy the 18th chapter two verses the
10th and 11th verses of deuteronomy there
shall not be found among you anyone who maketh
his son or his daughter pass through the fire
or who uses divination or an observer of times
on enchanter or a witch or a charmer or a
consulta of mediums or a wizard you remember
the story of saul he broke that law of god he
had lost contact with god god had left him no
more blessing upon saul the great king of
israel and so he decided that he was going to
consult a medium and try to get a message from
samuel he consulted the medium he was
successful in talking briefly with samuel but
he was killed shortly thereafter as the
judgment of god fell upon saul and his family
now americans at this hour are vacillating
according to the latest polls some deny the
existence of the devil altogether but others
have an unnatural fascination with the devil
and with demons and with exorcism and other
things in the occult and because of the
success of the exorcist in many new films are
being made on the subject of the devil and
evil right now a pastor who saw one of these
films said recently it was obnoxious repulsive
disgusting pornographic and obscene i myself
have not seen any of these films i do not
intend to expose myself to this type of thing
but a jesuit priest who saw one but a jesuit
priest who saw one of these films said in his
survey among university students most students
that have seen the films wish they had never
seen them now this is not a phenomenon just in
america it's also in germany where there are
thousands of witches it's also in great
britain our british bishop said the other day
that great britain is turning to black magic
as their interest in christianity declines and
i believe that one of the problems in the
world today that is not recognized is the
great intensification and acceleration of evil
in the world at this moment because the devil
knows his time is short the coming of the lord
jesus christ may be drawing near and the
scripture teaches that as the coming of the
lord draws near the activity of the devil will
intensify the kidnapping the violence the
terror all over the world i believe is a part
of demonic activity one authority says that
witchcraft is growing faster than any other
religion in the western world and one reason i
think that young people get involved it's
because it does get them involved it's a
return to nature in a sense of worship of the
natural gods finding some power within
themselves or broadening their minds some of
them through drugs and some without drugs but
thousands of young and old alike are dabbling
in their cult at this moment shops in our
cities are selling all types of things that go
along with their cult one university professor
not this university but a university professor
said some time ago that there were dozens of
covens on their campus now covent as you know
is a circle of witches and warlocks and
warlocks on male witches numbering 13 they're
always number 13 and they have their rights
and their rituals and their literature and
their witchcraft now what is right and what is
wrong what is false and what is true the bible
has a lot to say about it and i'm going to
cover a big subject in a very few minutes
tonight first the bible teaches there is a
devil there is a devil we meet him in the
third chapter of genesis and we don't get rid
of him till the end of the book of revelation
he's all the way through the bible and in the
bible we find that he's a person he walks he
talks he tempts he lies he flatters he kills
he works miracles he counterfeits he oppresses
he afflicts he influences he destroys he
quotes and misquotes scripture he possesses he
inflicts bodily injury he sells discord in the
church he spreads false doctrine those are the
things that this personality in the bible
called the devil does according to the
scripture now he's called in the bible he's
called satan he's called the devil he's called
a fallen angel he's called a roaring lion he's
called the prince of demons he's called a wolf
a prowler beelzebub the dragon the serpent
lucifer a great light a star a betrayer an
adversary a wonder worker a liar the father of
lies the god of this world the prince of this
world and the prince of the and power of the
air his is described in the bible as the
kingdom of darkness the kingdom of evil the
kingdom of unrighteousness the kingdom of
hatred sin death hell and the grave he
produces false miracles false spiritual
experiences false tongues the father of fakery
he has a false church a false gospel a false
plan of salvation a false trinity false
preachers false prophets that's what the bible
says about the devil now the word lucifer
means light barrel one who shines it's a
deceptive light it's not the true light it's a
deceptive light it's a false light he promises
freedom liberty and life but he produces only
sorrow slavery and death he's a deceiver and
he's trying to deceive thousands of you young
people tonight by promising you that if you'll
only follow him and serve him and bow down to
him and live for him that he will give you
freedom liberty and life but actually he gives
you sorrow slavery and ultimately eternal
death in hell now the devil is resisted in the
bible by the characters of the bible that god
honored and blessed and loved he was resisted
by job he was resisted by jesus he was
resisted by the disciples he was cast out of
heaven and the bible says he will eventually
and ultimately be cast into hell the laker
fire that was prepared for the devil and his
angels now you say how did the devil originate
why why did god allow the devil well there's a
lot of uncertainty about that the apostle paul
calls evil the mystery of iniquity they're
just some things we don't know god did not
reveal it to us and if god did not reveal it
to us we shouldn't be delving into speculation
but there are some hints in the bible about
where the devil originated in isaiah the 14th
chapter in ezekiel the in the 14th of isaiah
it says howarth thou fallen from heaven o
lucifer son of the morning howard thou cast
down to the ground for thou hast said in thy
heart and then it says five times i will
putting his will against god's will listen to
it i will ascend into heaven i will exalt my
throne above the stars i will sit upon the
mount of the congregation i will ascend above
the heights of the clouds i will be like the
most high in other words there came a time
somewhere back in eternity when lucifer the
highest and greatest of all of god's created
beings led a rebellion against god and it
seems that about a third of the angels joined
him in the rebellion they were cast out of
heaven they landed on this earth and the devil
and these fallen angels who have now become
demons are active on this planet they're under
judgment they've been defeated by the cross
and the resurrection they are ultimately going
to be cast into hell but in the meantime they
are active and increasing their activity now
the sin of lucifer was pride he wanted to be
like god he wanted to be above god he wanted
to be the greatest being in all the universe
so he led the rebellion you say where did he
get this idea we don't know how did sin enter
his heart we don't know why did god allow him
we don't know this is wrapped up in the
mystery of god it's wrapped up in the mystery
of iniquity it's something we don't understand
and it'll never be resolved until the battle
of armageddon when our lord jesus christ is
going to come back followed by thousands of
the armies of heaven and he's going to destroy
forever the devil and his angels and we'll be
rid on this planet of the greatest plague in
the greatest thing that has ever happened to
any planet anywhere in the universe now the
second thing what about demons the new
testament makes one thing clear there is one
devil there are many demons you remember the
story in the fifth chapter of mark the man of
the gatherings this man was possessed of a
devil many demons and it had affected his
metal his emotional and his physical faculties
and he and jesus held conversation not with
the man but with the demons jesus never talked
to the man at all he talked to the demons and
there are several things about that man that
interest me today and irrelevant at this hour
in america he was naked he was a streaker he
was violent he was violent and look at the
violence in the country and he wanted he
wanted the demons to be cast or the demons
wanted to be cast into the swine into the pigs
you see the combination you have here you have
violence nakedness self-destruction and pigs
what do some of the people call the police
today some of the more violent people pigs is
there a connection i don't know but it's quite
interesting that this demon-possessed man that
jesus encountered would have all of those
things that we're wrestling with today now the
origin of demons as i said a moment ago is
unclear jesus said i beheld satan as lightning
fall from heaven and the bible says in
revelation 12 the devil and his angels fight
against michael the archangel and his angels
now you say what about exorcism well do you
know what the word exorcism actually means the
word exorcism means expelling spirits by a
religious act or religious service that's how
what it means expelling an evil spirit and
jesus of course was the greatest of all
exorcists he commanded the demons and the
forces of evil to come out of people and that
man that i was telling about a moment ago he
commanded this legion of demons to leave and
they left and went into the swine and the
swine went hurtling into the sea and destroyed
themselves now the fact of exorcism is a
reality but it's misunderstood some of the
modern interpretations originated actually in
pagan practices magic formulas and rituals to
expel evil spirits have been practiced for
centuries in primitive societies usually
accompanied by violence and infliction of pain
there's one tribe in india that i read about
where they take a cotton wick soaked in oil
and they light it and they stuff it up the
nostrils of the person who is supposed to be
possessed of demons and the cruelty of
professional exorcist in many parts of the
world is beyond our comprehension and
understanding now matthew the eighth chapter
tells us that when the disciples brought to
jesus many that were demon-possessed he cast
out the spirits not with a long ritual as
we're being told today but by a word his word
and his disciples cast out demons how in the
name of the lord jesus christ by a word the
power of the name of christ and mark 16 those
who have believed in my name they shall cast
out demons however there's a warning don't go
around using some sort of hocus pocus and say
be gone in the name of jesus it won't work you
have got to be filled with the holy spirit and
you have to be walking in the spirit and you
have to know that that's a demon and you have
to know beyond the shadow of a doubt that you
have the authority of god's word back of you
behind the name of jesus stands the power of
almighty god now how do you keep from being
possessed or harassed and vexed by demons you
see demons have power only that is as far as a
christian is concerned only when you are
walking in some sin if you allow a besides
besetting sin to get a grip on you you've
opened the way for the demons in your life as
we walk with christ if you're a christian and
you're walking in the spirit and god is with
you and all known sin has been confessed and
you're in fellowship with christ then you can
walk in the middle of the most dangerous
spiritual situations and be protected by god
you can claim authority over the devil and his
angels but i'll tell you what the devil will
do he'll bluff as far as he can he'll take all
the ground that you give him give him an inch
he'll take a foot a woman possessed of the
spirit of divination you remember bothered
paul in philippi and he said you evil spirit i
command you in the name of jesus christ to
come out of this woman and leave her alone and
the evil spirit came out now i personally have
had that experience a few times but very few
and i was trying to think only once in america
i remember twice in india i remember once in
africa and once in the far east twice in the
far east and on each occasion very
interestingly the person involved use the same
three words i am free christ can free you but
it's not done with a ritual it's not done with
the way where it's being depicted it's done in
the name of the lord jesus christ and every
believer every christian has the right to pray
that prayer with a person who is in trouble
now a great many things that we call demon
possession and not demon possession at all for
example mental problems are not caused by
demons some may be but many are not and so you
have to have discernment that only the holy
spirit can give you as to what is demon
activity and what is normal activity or the
activity of nature you say well how do we
overcome demons when they bother us and harass
us i want you to listen to this first of all
be sure you know christ i do not believe that
a true believer in jesus christ can be
possessed by a demon you can be vexed by a
demon you can be harassed by a demon but i do
not believe the scripture teaches you can be
possessed by a demon now satan filled judas
satan filled ananias and sapphira who were
professing believers we're told in scripture
but are you sure that you know christ do you
know that jesus christ lives in your heart
have you settled it come to christ tonight
while you can as bill cepeda said he did five
years ago as mike said he did three years ago
come to christ surrender your life to him and
make sure about that and you will have a power
living in you that is greater than he that is
in the world you will have the power of the
holy spirit the power of god in your life and
you can resist the devil the bible says and he
will flee from you the second thing be filled
with the holy spirit the scripture says be not
drunk with wine but be filled with the holy
spirit i want to ask you tonight as a believer
are you filled with the holy spirit you can be
filled not through some emotional ecstasy you
can be filled by a simple act of faith how did
you receive christ you received him simply by
faith all right you're filled the same way you
can say i am filled by the holy spirit with
the holy spirit by faith you see the moment
you receive christ the holy spirit takes up
residence in your heart and as you surrender
everything that he points out that's wrong in
your life then he filled you and you're filled
and you produce fruit now every christian has
the gifts of the spirit you have a gift i
don't care who you are and how lowly a
christian you are you have a gift and you
ought to be utilizing that gift in the body of
christ and you ought to be utilizing that gift
in witnessing for christ but the fruit of the
spirit is something different the fruit of the
spirit is different than the gifts of the
spirit the fruit of the spirit is produced by
the holy spirit love and joy and peace
longsuffering gentleness goodness and so forth
that's produced by the holy spirit now if you
are living in the spirit producing the fruit
of the spirit filled with the holy spirit
satan cannot get inside of you at all but let
me tell you sin even the slightest little sin
will grieve the holy spirit and open the way
for demonic activity jesus said i will never
leave you nor desert you i will not forsake
you now the third thing watch for the schemes
of the devil the scripture says put on the
whole armor of god that you may be able to
stand against the schemes of the devil now the
devil is going to exploit your personality
quirks the lust of the flesh the natural
physical drives that you have hunger as he did
jesus he tempted jesus when jesus was hungry
the devil always comes to you when you're weak
to tempt you to harass you to trouble you
watch out for those moments when you're weak
when you're hungry he also uses the sex drive
sex is a powerful drive that we all have and
the devil will use it if we give him a half an
inch for our struggle the scripture says is
not against flesh and blood but against the
rulers the powers the world forces of this
darkness the spiritual forces of wickedness in
the heavenly places and the scripture says
therefore take up the fall armor of god that
ye may be able to resist in the evil day and
having done everything to stand firm and then
the bible outlines the armor that we should
have and i want to ask you tonight if you have
your armor on have you checked it first check
it the belt paul said having your loins girt
with truth now the belt or the or the girdle
was a belt about six or seven inches wide that
went around a roman soldier and by the way
when paul was writing this in ephesians he was
in a roman jail and a roman guard was guarding
him so he just looked at his uniform and got
his illustrations for how we christians ought
to be and one was that belt because you see
that belt of that girdle held everything else
in place and paul says have your lawns gert
with truth in other words learn the scriptures
learn the word of god that's the reason when
people come forward to receive thieves christ
we give them a bible study and we get them
involved in the scriptures reading the
scriptures memorizing the scriptures this is
how we resist the devil when jesus christ was
tempted of the devil what did he do argue with
the devil no he resisted the devil by quoting
scripture that's all he did just quote
scripture he said it is written and when he
was finished quoting the scripture the devil
would leave him and angels would come and
minister to it and then paul said put on the
breastplate of righteousness now the
breastplate was made of bronze backed with
tough pieces of hide and the breastplate of
righteousness is what we get from jesus christ
when we come to him as our lord and savior
because our righteousness our goodness is
filthy rags in the sight of god so you need a
righteousness that has been provided for you
and it was provided for you by jesus christ on
the cross and we receive the breastplate of
righteousness so that when the devil shoots
his fiery darts they can't penetrate that
breastplate and then thirdly he says how about
your boots having your feet shod with the
preparation of the gospel of peace now that
doesn't mean to go out and just preach the
gospel it means more than that it means that
you should have the peace of god in your heart
the serenity the joy the happiness that christ
gives should be in your heart so that when
troubles come satan will not be able to get
close to you you see satan uses worry anxiety
and tension to keep us off balance are you
afraid do not fear for i am with you says god
do not anxiously look about you for i am your
god i will strengthen you surely i will uphold
you with my right hand says god in isaiah 41.

are you worried about inflation everybody is
bills are stacking up pressures of business
closing in children getting out of hand are
those are the things you're worried about the
scripture says be anxious for nothing but in
everything by prayer and supplication with
thanksgiving let your requests be made known
to god and the peace of god which passes all
comprehension will guard will guard your
hearts and minds in christ jesus and then
fourthly what about the shield the roman
soldiers carried a shield the scripture says
in addition to all taking up the shield of
faith with which you will be able to
extinguish all the flaming missiles of the
evil one now roman's shield was two feet wide
and four feet long and it warded off the blows
of the enemy he would hide behind it when room
when arrows would come against him satan is
always shooting his missiles and his darts hit
us we need the shield of faith trusting
believing in god taking god at his word and
then fifthly is the helmlet and take the
helmet of salvation the helmet is very
important because it guards the brain
protected the head there's a lot in the
scripture to say about the mind let this mind
be in you which was in christ jesus that will
keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed
on thee intellectually you cannot come to
christ alone because your mind has a veil over
it put there but the devil but when you come
to christ your mind is illuminated by the holy
spirit and the things that you didn't
understand before you now accept by faith and
you put on the helmet and that helmet protects
you against the enemy the devil is going to
try to cause you to doubt he's going to try to
cause you to question i remember my own father
he had been told by a preacher many years ago
that he'd committed the unpardonable sin and
my father thought all those years that he
couldn't come to christ he hadn't committed it
he didn't even know what it was and it was
years later that he found the joy of his
salvation again you see satan had sidetracked
and perverted the scriptures and then there's
the sword and the sword of the spirit which is
the word of god that's the offensive weapon
you see a roman's blade was about 24 inches
long and he would twist and turn keep his
balance always thrusting and the scripture
says that the word of god is living and active
and sharper than any two-edged sword when
satan tempted jesus jesus used the sword the
word of god that's the reason it's important
to study the bible to know the bible to learn
the bible and i believe this i believe that
christians and believers are going to go
through a period of trouble and difficulty we
may go to jail we may be killed for our faith
as many people in other parts of the world
have been we're not going to escape it's on
the way and the way to get prepared is to
learn this book so that when they do call upon
you to witness when they do call upon you you
know the scriptures and you can quote the word
of god and be a witness and resist the devil
and the scripture says he will flee and then
the seventh and the last thing is to pray pray
without ceasing said paul with all prayer and
petition pray at all times in the spirit
praying in bible study check your armor is it
in place one final word the final victory the
devil and his works and death and hell in the
grave have been nullified they've been
destroyed by the lord jesus christ at the
cross the victory is won that victory is
assured till that final day there's a lot of
suffering a lot of fighting a lot of battling
but we're on the winning side and the
scripture teaches that jesus christ has won
the victory and they overcame him by the blood
of the lamb by the blood of the lamb there
there's power in the blood
